[D1] Get started revision (#6662)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/d1/get-started/get-started.md

---
weight: 1

> title: Get started

Reviewer: Nit: Seems odd to have a `/get-started/get-started/` page, but I guess the parent section will eventually have additional pages.

pcx_content_type: get-started
---

# Get started

This guide will instruct you through setting up and deploying your first database with D1. This guide assumes you already have a Cloudflare account.

> ## 1.  Install and authenticate Wrangler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Install and authenticate Wrangler
```

Use a Node version manager like [Volta](https://volta.sh/) or [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to avoid permission issues and change Node.js versions. Wrangler requires a Node version of `16.13.0` or later. Install Wrangler by running:

```sh
$ npm install -g wrangler
```

or install with `yarn`:

```sh
$ yarn global add wrangler
```

After installing Wrangler, if you are unauthenticated, you will be directed to a web page asking you to log in to the Cloudflare dashboard. After you have logged in, you will be asked if Wrangler can make changes to your Cloudflare account. Scroll down and select **Allow** to continue.

## 2. Create your Worker

You will use a Worker to access your D1 database. Start a new Worker project named `my-project` by running:

```sh
$ wrangler init my-project -y
```

This will create a new Worker project directory (`my-project`). Your new directory will include a [`wrangler.toml`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file which is how your `my-project` Worker will access your D1 database.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> Indicating `-y` will affirmatively to all of Wrangler's initialization questions. This will create a `package.json` file, an `index.ts` file instead of a `index.js` file and Wrangler will also generate a `tsconfig.json` file in the root of your project. It will also create a `fetch` handler instead of a `scheduled` handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indicating `-y` will answer affirmatively to all of Wrangler's initialization questions. This will create a `package.json` file, an `index.ts` file instead of a `index.js` file, and Wrangler will also generate a `tsconfig.json` file in the root of your project. It will also create a `fetch` handler instead of a `scheduled` handler.
```

{{</Aside>}}

## 3. Create your database

To create your first database, go to your Worker project directory:

```sh
$ cd my-project
```

Then run the following command and give your database a name:

```sh
$ wrangler d1 create <DATABASE_NAME>
```

This will create a new D1 database.

## 4. Bind your Worker to your D1 database

You must create a binding for your Worker to connect to your D1 database. [Bindings](/workers/platform/bindings/) allow your Workers to access resources, like D1, on the Cloudflare developer platform. You create bindings by updating your `wrangler.toml` file.

To bind your D1 database to your Worker, add the following to your `wrangler.toml` file:

```toml
[[ d1_databases ]]
binding = "<BINDING_NAME>"
database_name = "<DATABASE_NAME>"
database_id = "<UUID>"
```

> Set your binding name by updating the `<BINDING_NAME>` value. Your binding is available in your Worker at `env.<BINDING_NAME>`. The `database_name` and `database_id` can be found in your terminal after you ran the `create` command in step 3. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set your binding name by updating the `<BINDING_NAME>` value. Your binding is available in your Worker at `env.<BINDING_NAME>`. You will find the values for `database_name` and `database_id` in your terminal after you run the `create` command in step 3. 
```
Trying to avoid passive voice.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

When you execute the `wrangler d1 create` command, the client API package (which implements the D1 API and database class) is automatically installed. For more information on the D1 Client API, refer to [D1 Client API](/d1/client-api/).

{{</Aside>}}

## 4. Run a query against your D1 database

### Configure your D1 database

> With your `wrangler.toml` configured properly, set up your database. You will use the following example `schema.sql` file to configure your database. Copy the following code and save it as a `schema.sql` file in the `my-project` Worker directory you created in step 2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `wrangler.toml` configured properly, set up your database. You will use the following example `schema.sql` file to configure your database. Copy the following code and save it as a `schema.sql` file in the `my-project` Worker directory you created in step 2:
```
I'd use "your wrangler.toml **file**" or just "wrangler.toml".

```sql
---

> filename: "schema.sql"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filename: schema.sql
```
We don't need quotes in filenames (these quotes would appear in the documentation).

---
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS Customers;
CREATE TABLE Customers (CustomerID INT, CompanyName TEXT, ContactName TEXT, PRIMARY KEY (`CustomerID`));

> INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerID, CompanyName, ContactName) VALUES (1, 'Alfreds Futterkiste', 'Maria Anders'),(4, 'Around the Horn', 'Thomas Hardy'),(11, 'Bs Beverages', 'Victoria Ashworth'),(13, 'Bs Beverages', 'Random Name');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerID, CompanyName, ContactName) VALUES (1, 'Alfreds Futterkiste', 'Maria Anders'), (4, 'Around the Horn', 'Thomas Hardy'), (11, 'Bs Beverages', 'Victoria Ashworth'), (13, 'Bs Beverages', 'Random Name');
```

```

You will configure your database to run and test locally first. Bootstrap your new D1 database by running:

```sh

> $ wrangler d1 execute <database-name> --local --file=./schema.sql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ wrangler d1 execute <DATABASE_NAME> --local --file=./schema.sql
```
Let's keep the same placeholder name unless there's a reason not to.

```

Then validate your data is in your database by running:

```sh

> $ wrangler d1 execute <database-name> --local --command='SELECT * FROM Customers'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ wrangler d1 execute <DATABASE_NAME> --local --command='SELECT * FROM Customers'
```

```

### Write queries within your Worker

After you have set up your database, you will run an SQL query from within your Worker. 

First, go to your Worker project and open the `index.ts` file. The `index.ts` file is where you configure your Worker's interactions with D1. Paste the following code snippet into your `index.ts` file and, on the `env` parameter, replace `<BINDING_NAME>` with the binding name you set in step 4:

```javascript
---
filename: "src/index.ts"
---
export interface Env {
  <BINDING_NAME>: D1Database;
}

export default {
  async fetch(request: Request, env: Env) {
    const { pathname } = new URL(request.url);

    if (pathname === "/api/beverages") {
      const { results } = await env.<BINDING_NAME>.prepare(
        "SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE CompanyName = ?"
      )
        .bind("Bs Beverages")
        .all();
      return Response.json(results);
    }

    return new Response(
      "Call /api/beverages to see everyone who works at Bs Beverages"
    );
  },
};
```

After configuring your Worker, test your project locally.

## 5. Develop locally with Wrangler

> While in your project directory, test your database locally by running:

Reviewer: Not sure what this does, but I'm guessing you'll be testing your Workers project locally, not your database.
Also, if we have some other page about local development, I'd link to it.

```sh
$ wrangler dev --local --persist
```

## 6. Deploy your database

> To deploy your database to production, you must first repeat the [bootstrap your database](/d1/get-started/#bootstrap-your-d1-database) steps without the `--local` flag to give your Worker data to read.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy your database to production, you must first repeat the [database bootstrapping](/d1/get-started/#bootstrap-your-d1-database) steps without the `--local` flag to give your Worker data to read.
```
I believe that the sentence is slightly less awkward this way.

First, bootstrap your database with the `schema.sql` file you created in step 4:

```sh
$ wrangler d1 execute <DATABASE_NAME> --file=./schema.sql
```

Then validate the data is in production by running:

```sh

> $ wrangler d1 execute <database-name> --command='SELECT * FROM Customers'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ wrangler d1 execute <DATABASE_NAME> --command='SELECT * FROM Customers'
```

```

Finally, deploy your Worker to make your project accessible on the Internet. To deploy your Worker, run:

```sh
$ wrangler publish
```

By finishing this guide, you have created a D1 database, a Worker to access that database and deployed your project.

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Next steps
```

If you have any feature requests or notice any bugs, share your feedback directly with the Cloudflare team by joining the [Cloudflare Developers community on Discord](https://discord.gg/cloudflaredev).

> * [Supported Wrangler commands for D1]()

Reviewer: There's a couple of missing links here.
Also, I'd add some header like "Related resources" for this content.

## 5. Develop locally with Wrangler

While in your project directory, test your database locally by running:

```sh
$ wrangler dev --local --persist
```

## 6. Deploy your database

To deploy your database to production, you must first repeat the [database bootstrapping](/d1/get-started/#bootstrap-your-d1-database) steps without the `--local` flag to give your Worker data to read.

First, bootstrap your database with the `schema.sql` file you created in step 4:

```sh
$ wrangler d1 execute <DATABASE_NAME> --file=./schema.sql
```

Then validate the data is in production by running:

```sh
$ wrangler d1 execute <DATABASE_NAME> --command='SELECT * FROM Customers'
```

Finally, deploy your Worker to make your project accessible on the Internet. To deploy your Worker, run:

```sh
$ wrangler publish
```

By finishing this guide, you have created a D1 database, a Worker to access that database and deployed your project.

## Next steps

If you have any feature requests or notice any bugs, share your feedback directly with the Cloudflare team by joining the [Cloudflare Developers community on Discord](https://discord.gg/cloudflaredev).

> * [Supported Wrangler commands for D1]()

Author: ```suggestion
* [Supported Wrangler commands for D1](/d1/wrangler-commands/)
```

> * [D1 client API]()

Author: ```suggestion
* [D1 client API](/d1/client-api/)
```
